
                            Outdoor Cooking
                                  WITH
                             REYNOLDS WRAP
                   PURE ALUMINUM FOIL IN HANDY ROLLS


  How to prepare tastier campfire meals without pots, pans and dishes

  _For:_
    • SCOUTS
    • CAMPERS
    • PICNICKERS
    • FISHERMEN
    • HUNTERS

                        REYNOLDS METALS COMPANY
                         RICHMOND 19, VIRGINIA

                                                                   _10¢_




                            Outdoor Cooking
                                  WITH
                             Reynolds Wrap


                         _THE PERFECT FOOD WRAP
                    THAT YOU BAKE AND COOK IN, TOO!_

  Methods developed and all recipes field-tested by recognized camping
                              authorities.

    [Illustration: {Uncaptioned}]

Copyright 1950

                      THE REYNOLDS METALS COMPANY
                         RICHMOND 19, VIRGINIA
                                                     Printed in U. S. A.




                                Foreword


    [Illustration: {Uncaptioned}]

This booklet on Outdoor Cooking is presented to make outdoor life more
enjoyable for the thousands of campers who take to the open fields,
woodlands, and streams of America each year.

It is written to demonstrate the new aluminum foil way to cook out of
doors ... endorsed by expert campers, camping associations, and rod and
gun clubs throughout the country.

Alert campers who discover new uses for Reynolds Wrap (aluminum foil)
are urged to write the publisher, Reynolds Metals Company, who will try
to include them in subsequent editions of this manual ... thereby
assisting other campers to a happier day afield.




                             Reynolds Wrap
                  _What it is and how campers use it_


Aluminum foil, as widely distributed under the name Reynolds Wrap, is
pure aluminum. Reynolds Wrap is available at grocery, drug, department
and other stores throughout most of the U. S.

Aluminum is often called the “miracle metal” ... and it is in the form
of aluminum foil that its miracle properties are most evident.

Housewives line frying pans with it, wrap meat and fowl for roasting,
etc. Campers wrap their food in it and drop the package in the hot coals
of the campfire. They thus eliminate scouring pots and pans and washing
dishes ... the unpleasant chores of camping out.

The heat-reflective property is, again, most dramatically demonstrated
by the foil. It is used by housewives to line broiler pans and reflect
heat upward to broil the underside of a steak (and to save on pan
scouring). At campfires, reflective ovens are constructed of Reynolds
Wrap—to bake bread, biscuits, and even small pies.

Wrapping an object in pure aluminum foil is a unique experience. No
strings, rubber bands, or other fastenings are required ... the wrap
molds to any shape, and holds it. By crimping edges, the package is
sealed against moisture, air, light, and odor. Little wonder it is so
widely used to keep certain foods fresh and moist. On a day’s outing or
overnight hike, campers prepare several meals before they start out,
wrap each in Reynolds Wrap, toss them into their pockets ... and all
that remains is to build a fire and drop the “packaged meal” in the
coals.

Reynolds Wrap cuts down “camp chores” and makes outdoor life more
fun.... See the menus and recipes on the following pages for dozens of
ideas, every one proved at the campfire.

CAUTION:—Obviously, foods and sandwich spreads that normally require
refrigeration must be kept iced to assure positive protection.

    [Illustration: {Uncaptioned}]




                           Have you ever...?


    [Illustration: {Uncaptioned}]

After a hard day of whipping the stream or tramping the woods, have you
ever returned to your base camp to find a pile of greasy, smoky-black
pots and kettles waiting to be scoured? Or have you ever awakened in the
morning to meet the mess of the night before?

Ah, now you remember ... you were in a hurry to get away at break of
day, or the evening darkness fell too soon. You left the cooking
utensils unwashed. So now, before the meal can be prepared, the oatmeal
pot must be scrubbed out and the frying pan scoured clean. It’s
unpleasant work and it takes time. Even the most moderate tempers
sometimes flare up when hunger bites and there is no prospect of
immediate food.

But Reynolds Wrap has solved this problem once and for all. Pots, pans,
and dishes are no longer necessary on a camping trip.

Read the suggestions in this booklet carefully.




           Six things to remember for better outdoor cooking


1. A bed of hot coals is the thing. Never use a flaming fire (except
      when using a reflector oven).

2. Fold the Reynolds Wrap into a package according to instructions on
      Page 7. Practice this several times.

3. Always add shortening, fat, butter, or bacon to package before
      cooking.

4. Cooking times will vary with wind strength, type of firewood, and
      many other factors. All the times given in this booklet are
      approximate, of course—a campfire has no thermostat.

5. It’s a good idea to turn a package at approximately half its cooking
      time.

6. Package must be crimped carefully for complete sealing to keep in
      moisture ... to assure “pressure cooking.”




                    How to wrap food before cooking


    [Illustration: {Uncaptioned}]

This explanation is of utmost importance and must be followed closely
for the best results in cooking. All cooking is done in DOUBLE foil
envelopes.

1. Place item to be cooked on a sheet of Reynolds Wrap. Wrap should be
      big enough to allow for a three-fold crimping of open edges.

2. Next fold in half and crimp the three open edges. Make three folds on
      these edges. This makes an air-tight envelope.

3. Take another sheet of Reynolds Wrap the same size as the first,
      repeat process, making a double layer around the food.

4. This package is placed right on the coals. When the food is cooked,
      the three crimped edges can be torn off in zipper fashion. The
      contents are then eaten from the wrap, doing away with a dish or
      plate.




                  How to build the right kind of fire


    [Illustration: {Uncaptioned}]

The right kind of fire for aluminum foil cooking is really no fire at
all, but rather a bed of hot coals. The Boy Scout Merit Badge Book on
cooking explains how to get a bed of coals as follows:

“The camp fire generally supplies a good bed of coals, but sometimes
this is needed in a hurry, soon after camp is pitched. To get it, take
sound hardwood, either green or dead, and split it into sticks of
uniform thickness (say 1¼ inch face). Lay down two bed-sticks, cross
these near the ends with two others, and so on up until you have a pen
or crib a foot high. Start a fire in this pen.

“Then cover the top of the pen with a layer of parallel sticks laid an
inch apart. Cross this with a similar layer at right angles, and so
upward for another foot. The free draft will make a roaring fire, and it
will all burn down to coals together. The thick bark of hemlock, and of
hardwoods generally will soon give you coals for cooking. To keep coals
for a long time cover them with ashes, or with bark which will quickly
burn to ashes.”




                          Try these camp ideas


In taking lunches from the base camp, Reynolds Wrap will help in two
ways: First, sandwiches, cake, cookies, etc. are wrapped to hold
freshness, to prevent them from getting wet in case of rain. (Be sure
sandwiches do not contain dressing, etc. that normally should be kept
under refrigeration.) Secondly, if a hot meal is desired (some campers
due to health conditions, must have a hot meal at noon) take a chop or a
piece of meat, place it in the wrap with a patty of butter, add slices
of potato ¼ inch thick, onion, carrot or other vegetable sliced and seal
package securely. This package can be put in a camp fire on the trail
and cooked in 15 to 20 minutes.

On a field trip requiring 2 or 3 meals, each meal can be prepared at
home before leaving. It is sealed at home and ready for the fire in a
moment’s notice. Label the meals Lunch, Supper, etc.

If fish or other game is to be cooked in camp in a kettle or frying pan,
line the pan with Reynolds Wrap before cooking, thus eliminating a
“rough” scouring job and, perhaps, fish-tasting sausages the next
morning.

A round, six inch piece of Reynolds Wrap carried in the pack or pocket
can be quickly shaped into a conical drinking cup for a quick refreshing
drink on the trail. This cup can be used over and over again.

There are many campers and woodsmen who camp the year round. The problem
of keeping food from freezing in intense cold is solved by wrapping the
food in Reynolds Wrap, then newspaper and then Reynolds Wrap around the
outside of the package. This applies to canned goods, potatoes, fresh
fruit, liquids, etc.

Many campers protect articles they carry in their pockets by wrapping in
Reynolds Wrap. Matches are protected against dampening, exposed film is
sealed away from light, etc. Small objects are wrapped together so they
can’t get lost.

    [Illustration: {Uncaptioned}]




                            camp menu no. 1


                               BREAKFAST
                        _Individual Quantities_

  _Menu_                          _Amount_ (Each person)

  Stewed Fruit                    4 Prunes or Apricots
  Oatmeal                         ½ Cup
  Bacon & Eggs                    2 Slices of Bacon, 2 Eggs
  Toast & Butter                  2 Slices of Toast
  Coffee—Milk                     Instant Coffee

DIRECTIONS: An aluminum foil “pot” can be made by forming doubled
Reynolds Wrap around a forked sapling. The size pot will depend upon the
number in the party. Place dried fruit in enough water to cover them,
the night before. A little more water can be added in the morning, if
necessary, also a small amount (2-3 teaspoons) of sugar if desired. The
pot is carefully placed at edge of camp fire. Oatmeal is cooked in a
similar pot. Add ½ cup of oatmeal to each cup of boiling water. Add ¼
teaspoon of salt to boiling water, then stir in oatmeal. When it
thickens it’s ready. Now, shape up a similar pan of doubled foil and
place bacon in it. When it is about half done, drop in 2 eggs. Eggs
should be cooked sunnyside up as it may be difficult for beginners to
turn them. Toast is made by sticking 2 or 3 pencil sized saplings, 10
inches long into the ground near the fire. Hang the slices of bread on
them and don’t forget to turn them—you are not using a “pop up” toaster.

Coffee of the instant type can be made by using another “foil kettle”
but some campers may prefer to use the old fashioned coffee pot.

    [Illustration: _A forked sapling is bent around in hoop fashion.
    Doubled Reynolds Wrap is carefully pressed down inside and folded
    around the rim. Food is put in it before exposing to fire._]




                            camp menu no. 2


                          FISHERMAN’S DELIGHT
                        _Individual Quantities_

  _Menu_                          _Amount_

  Trout                           ¾ to 1 lb. Fish
                                  2 Slices Bacon
  Steamed Potatoes                1 Med. to Lge. Potato
  Buttered Onions                 2 Small Onions
  Bread, Apple Butter             1 Jar Apple Butter
  Coffee, Cookies                 4 to 5 Cookies
  Canned Peaches                  1 Small Can Peaches

DIRECTIONS: Clean and wash the fish and vegetables. Take about 26 inches
of Reynolds Wrap. Place ½ slice of bacon on the wrap. Place fish on top.
Slice potatoes in ¼ inch slices and place on top of fish. Slice onions
in same manner and place around sides and on top of potatoes. Put
another slice of bacon on top of potatoes and onions. Carefully fold
foil and crease over to seal. Now fold in the ends to seal in all
moisture. Caution—do not make a hole in the wrap.

Place dinner on hot coals for 10 minutes. Now take a blunt stick and
turn it over and leave for 10 minutes more. The length of time it is
left in the fire is determined by the size of fish. The larger the fish,
the more time. Only experience can teach this.

Open up your fish dinner and enjoy its sealed-in flavor.

    [Illustration: _Reynolds Wrap cooking brings the pressure cooking
    idea to outdoor campfire cooking for the first time._]




                            camp menu no. 3


                              STEAK ROAST
                        _Individual Quantities_

  _Menu_                          _Amount_

  Beef Steak                      2 Slices Bacon
                                  ¾ to 1 lb. Steak
  Potatoes                        1 Med. to Lge. Potato
  Onions                          1 Medium Onion
  Buttered Carrots                2 Medium Carrots
  Hot Bread & Butter              2 Cups Prepared Biscuit Mix
  Cake & Coffee                   ½ Pound Cake

DIRECTIONS: Take 26 to 30 inches of Reynolds Wrap. Wash steak and
vegetables to add moisture. Slice potatoes. Place small amount of butter
on bottom of wrap. Place steak over it. Spread potatoes over steak.
Slice onion over potatoes. Clean and slice carrots and place along sides
of meat. Fold up foil lengthwise and fold over to seal. Place on hot
coal camp fire for 15 minutes. Change position of package after 6-7
minutes to assure even cooking.

Mix prepared biscuit flour adding water sparingly. Dough can be mixed in
a pan improvised from Reynolds Wrap. Mix with a clean stick. Take 24
inches of foil and double it. Grease inside with butter. Place dough
inside and place on edge of fire and turn occasionally. Do not place on
hot coals except for last one or two minutes.

Watch your time! Steak dinner—and fresh bread all completed in 15 to 20
minutes time.

    [Illustration: _Another steak ready for the fire. This time the
    steak is covered with onions and a slice of tomato. The potato is
    wrapped separately._]




                            camp menu no. 4


                       NEW ENGLAND CHICKEN DINNER
                        _Individual Quantities_

  _Menu_                          _Amount_

  Chicken                         2 Slices Bacon
                                  Chicken Leg or equivalent
  Potatoes                        1 Med. to Lge. Potato
  Buttered Turnips                ½ Turnip (medium)
  Bread & Butter
  Baked Apple                     1 Large Apple
  Coffee, Cookies                 6-8 Cookies
                                  Powdered or other Coffee
                                  1 Teaspoon Brown Sugar

DIRECTIONS: Wash the chicken and vegetables. Take about 26 inches of
Reynolds Wrap. Place ½ slice of bacon on wrap and put chicken on top.
Slice potato into ¼ inch slices and put on chicken. Slice the turnip and
place around sides. Add small amount of butter (1 patty) or equivalent
shortening or bacon grease and ½ slice bacon on top. Fold package to
seal in juices. Fold in ends of package so that it is as air tight as
possible. Do not break the wrap! Place the package on hot coals for 15
minutes then turn it over for 10 minutes. It is ready to serve in 25 to
30 minutes.

Prepare the apple by cutting out the core and putting in 2 teaspoons of
brown sugar or white sugar if brown is not available. Use a long enough
piece of Reynolds Wrap to completely wrap the apple in doubled foil.
Place in hot coals and leave for 10 minutes.

Your meal should be hot and savory and completely cooked in 25 to 30
minutes.

    [Illustration: _Chicken ’n’ fixin’s for a wonderful outdoor meal.
    Other vegetables can be used to suit the taste of the individual
    camper._]




                            camp menu no. 5


                           HAMBURGER SPECIAL
                        _Individual Quantities_

  _Menu_                          _Amount_

  Hamburger                       ½ lb. Hamburger
                                  2 Slices Onion
  Baked Potato                    1 Large Potato
  Roast Corn                      2 Med. Ears of Corn
  Bread, Butter, Jam
  Stewed Apples                   ½ Cup Dried Apples
  Coffee, Milk                    Milk & Coffee as desired

DIRECTIONS: Wash and trim potato and place on doubled Reynolds Wrap.
Make several holes in potato. Wet hand and shake water on potato and
foil. Wrap and place on hot coals. Turn potato occasionally. Place
hamburger in doubled foil, onions on top. Add ½ patty of butter or
equivalent. Wrap hamburger and onions and place onion side up, on fire.

Corn should be wet thoroughly but left in husk. Wrap and put on coals.

Form foil pot and add cup of water for each ½ cup of dried apples. Place
apples in water and set on fire.

Turn potato, hamburger and corn occasionally and cook for 15 minutes.
Apples can be stewing as rest of meal is being eaten.

Stir apples and add water if necessary—add sugar when served.

    [Illustration: _Cooked in Reynolds Wrap, the gravy can’t escape.
    It’s saved for the potato._]




                            camp menu no. 6


                                CHOP FRY
                        _Individual Quantities_

  _Menu_                          _Amount_

  Lamb or Pork Chop               1 Chop
  Potato                          1 Potato
  Green Beans                     10-12 String Beans
  Apple Sauce                     1 Cup Dried Apples
  Cookies                         4 Cookies
  Bread & Butter                  Bread & Butter

DIRECTIONS: Place chop in center of 24 inch piece of Reynolds Wrap. Wash
and slice potato in ¼ inch slices. Distribute potatoes on top of chop,
wash and slice beans and place them around sides of chop. Shake small
amount of water over all ingredients, wrap carefully and place on hot
coals. Turn package over in 10 minutes and cook for 10 minutes on
opposite side. Remember that pork chops must be thoroughly done. Do not
eat pink pork.

Stew apples in foil pan and add sugar to taste.

    [Illustration: _Try an indoor picnic with guests cooking their own
    meal in Reynolds Wrap in the fire place._]




                           Baking camp bread


One of the highlights of any camping trip can be the baking of camp
bread or hot biscuits. Nothing equals hot biscuits and jam. This
operation is generally misunderstood by the unseasoned woodsman. It is
thought to be quite involved and complicated. Nothing could be further
from the truth. It can be extremely easy. Those who frequent the deep
woods where “store” bread is unobtainable or difficult to transport need
only take any good prepared biscuit mix, and the bread problem is
solved.

Since Reynolds Wrap has come into general use by Campers and Woodsmen
the bread-making job is much easier. You need no cumbersome reflector
oven on the trip. A reflector oven is made in two ways:

1. Take a 24 inch piece of Reynolds Wrap and bend it in the center at a
      45° angle. Place on a stone or other flat surface 6 inches above
      the ground and close to the edge of a flaming fire. Mix the
      biscuit dough using water. This can be done in a paper bag or a
      container shaped up from another piece of foil. Grease the bottom
      of the reflector oven slightly and shape 2 inch pieces of dough
      and place on the bottom of reflector. It is best to rub a small
      amount of dry mix on the fingers before shaping the biscuits so
      that the dough does not stick to the fingers. Place the oven so
      that an intense heat can be felt in front of the oven. When
      biscuits have browned on top turn them over by hand for a minute
      or two to bake the bottom of the biscuits. The whole baking
      operation should not take over 10 minutes if the fire is hot.

2. The second type of oven is built as follows: This is a permanent type
      of oven and remains stationary during the camp trip. Locate the
      site for your own camp fire. At the very edge of the fire drive 2
      stakes an inch in diameter into the ground so they are at least 15
      inches above the ground and 18 inches apart. Directly in back of
      these stakes and in line with them 16 inches back drive 2 similar
      stakes. Now tie cross pieces 9 inches from the ground on both the
      front and rear stakes. Stretch a piece of foil across these two
      horizontal sticks so it is rigid and tucked in around both sticks.
      This is the shelf. Now tie cross pieces on the front stakes six
      inches above and six inches below the shelf. Stretch Reynolds Wrap
      from the bottom cross piece back around the outside of the shelf
      and up to the top cross piece. Tuck it in securely and the oven is
      ready for baking. Caution: When heavy articles such as hamburgers,
      chops, etc. are placed on the shelf, distribute the weight. Take
      care not to overload the shelf. Eight to ten biscuits can be baked
      at one time. When the front row is browned, move it to the back
      and the back row to the front. (Best results can be obtained with
      reflector ovens by using a double thickness of Reynolds Wrap.)

Reynolds Wrap is now standard equipment on all fishing, camping and
hiking trips.

    [Illustration: _Biscuits in a jiffy. In front of a hot fire biscuits
    bake in ten minutes. In this type of oven they must be turned when
    done on top._]

    [Illustration: {Oven}]

    [Illustration: _For biscuits or camp bread. The tang of hot biscuits
    and jam puts zest into any camp trip. Reynolds Wrap makes the oven.
    Use any prepared biscuit mix._]

    [Illustration: {Oven}]




                        “whole chicken in foil”


Clean a ¾ pound fowl and fasten securely on a green wood spit. Wrap bird
with two wrappings of Reynolds Wrap and press ends firmly on spit to
seal. (Wrap exposed parts of spit to insulate from fire.) Turn
occasionally and cook over coals for one hour and fifteen minutes.
Remove wrap and brown further over coals if desired. The spit should not
be farther than 8-10 inches from the coals. The fact that Reynolds Wrap
is being used will eliminate constant turning as all of the moisture of
the bird is sealed in. It can be left in one position up to fifteen
minutes before turning again.




                              “roast beef”


A four to five pound boned rolled roast can be cooked as follows:

Secure roast on a green wood spit and wrap with two layers of Reynolds
Wrap. Press ends of wrap firmly against spit to seal. (Wrap exposed
parts of spit with wrap to insulate it from fire.) Turn occasionally and
cook twenty to twenty-five minutes per pound over hot coals. Arrange the
spit so that the roast is not over six to eight inches from the glowing
coals. Unwrap carefully if you want to save the juice. The flavor of
meat cooked in this fashion is far superior to that of meat cooked
without the wrap since all of the juices are sealed in completely. A
large portion of meat such as the above or larger can be exposed to an
intense heat without burning if it is turned occasionally.

    [Illustration: {Uncaptioned}]

    [Illustration: {Uncaptioned}]




                              t-bone steak


Place steak in large envelope of Reynolds Wrap with sliced onions and
seasoning to taste. Seal envelope and cover with another envelope of
foil. Place on hot coals allowing ten minutes on each side for medium
rare steak.




                            picnic novelties


SWEET POTATOES (candied sweet)—Peel and shoe string sweet potato (one).
Place on Reynolds Wrap, add two tablespoons water, and about one-half
cup brown sugar. Fold and wrap. Bake approximately seven minutes each
side on bed of hot coals.

BANANA-YUM—Cut both ends off a banana in skin (unpeeled). Slice down
center and sprinkle with brown sugar. Fold and wrap, sealing tightly.
Bake on hot coals about six minutes each side. Serve hot.

BAKED APPLE—Core and fill apple with sugar, raisins, nuts, etc. Place on
double square of Reynolds Wrap. Gather foil up over top and twist
together. Bake on hot coals.

    [Illustration: {Uncaptioned}]




                          franks in a blanket


Mix prepared biscuit flour as per directions and roll out thin, about ¼
inch. Cut in pieces large enough to surround frankfurter but let the
frankfurter protrude a half-inch or so at each end. Put in double
envelope of Reynolds Wrap and place on a medium fire of coals. Cook for
fifteen minutes turning frequently. This novelty is very tasty and a
grand picnic stunt. It must be remembered, however, to roll the franks
over quite often as they cook. This will keep them from scorching.

    [Illustration: {Uncaptioned}]

    [Illustration: {Uncaptioned}]




                        “Reynolds Wrap does it”


Here are a few of the uses which sportsmen find for this miracle metal.

1. Wrapping food to be transported to camp.

2. Wrapping lunches. Makes them wet proof, bug proof, with sealed-in
      freshness. (Remember caution about foods that require
      refrigeration.)

3. Cooking various meats and vegetables without pots or pans.

4. Baking camp bread, biscuits, etc.

5. Keeping food dry, fresh, clean, in camp.

6. Cooking game meat and fish.

7. Cooking fruit—prunes, apricots, apples, etc.

8. Used in cooking, there are no pots to wash.

9. Used as a plate, there are no plates to wash.

10. Used as a liner for pans, it eliminates washing both pots and pans.

11. Keeps frozen foods frozen longer.

12. Game meat and fish, iced and wrapped—first in newspaper, then in
      Reynolds Wrap—stay refrigerated several hours.

13. Camp sanitation increased. No questionably clean pots used.

14. Cooked food keeps hot until opened.

    [Illustration: _The golden hours of relaxation and rest—are
    increased by the use of Reynolds Wrap on fishing, camping and
    hunting trips._]

    [Illustration: {Uncaptioned}]

    [Illustration: _Keep your catch fresh with ice and a double wrap of
    foil._]

    [Illustration: _Protect your tackle and equipment for “off season”
    storage in Reynolds Wrap._]

    [Illustration: _Handy cup you carry in your pocket. Make it from a
    piece of Reynolds Wrap._]




                          My Favorite Recipes




  Have You Tried These Other Products Made by Reynolds Metals Company?


FROZEN FOOD WRAP

  Heavy-duty, pure aluminum foil in a handy consumer roll 50′ x 18″.
  Protects and preserves foods for freezing.

REYNOLDS PAK

  Handy, pure aluminum container consisting of tray and easily attached
  lid. Available in approximate pint and quart sizes. General utility
  tray for freezing, storing, baking, cooking, etc.

GIFT WRAPPING

  Beautiful foil wraps to make a “special” gift out of any present.
  Popularly priced.

RESTAURANT WRAP

  Heavy-duty, pure aluminum foil, 18″ wide, 50 lb. rolls. Used by
  restaurants, institutions, cafeterias, camps, etc.

    [Illustration: REYNOLDS ALUMINUM]




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.







End of Project Gutenberg's Outdoor Cooking with Reynolds Wrap, by Anonymous

